# Hands On Lab

Now that you have learned how to use grep and completed some examples. It is now time to practice what you have learned.

## Pre Requisites

We will be using the files in the previou example `app.log` and `setup.conf`. If you have not created the files yet, please refer to the previous examples to create the files.

## Exercise 1 - Find All "INFO" Logs

Search for all instances of "INFO" in `app.log` displaying the line number and one line of context before and after each match.

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  Here is the command to search for all instances of "INFO" in `app.log` displaying the line number and one line of context before and after each match.

  ```bash

  grep -i -n -C 1 "INFO" app.log

  ```

  Explanation:
  - `-i`: Ignore case distinctions in both the pattern and input files.
  - `-n`: Display the line number of each matching line.
  - `-C 1`: Display one line of context before and after each match.

</details>

## Exercise 2 - Find Configuration Values

Find all instances of the word "host" in `setup.conf` making sure that only whole words are matched.

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  Here is the command to search for all instances of the word "host" in `setup.conf` making sure that only whole words are matched.

  ```bash

  grep -i -w -n "host" setup.conf

  ```

  Explanation:
  - `-i`: Ignore case distinctions in both the pattern and input files.
  - `-w`: Match whole words only.
  - `-n`: Display the line number of each matching line.

</details>

## Exercise 3 - Find Log Messages That Contain IPs

Find all log messages in `app.log` that contain an IP address.

<details>
  <summary>Hint</summary>

  Use a regular expression to match an IP address.

  ```bash

  "[0-9]+\.[0-9]+\.[0-9]+\.[0-9]+"

  ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  Here is the command to search for all log messages in `app.log` that contain an IP address.

  ```bash

  grep -E -o "[0-9]+\.[0-9]+\.[0-9]+\.[0-9]+" app.log

  ```

  Explanation:
  - `-E`: Interpret the pattern as an extended regular expression.
  - `-o`: Show only the part of the line that matches the pattern.
  - `[0-9]+\.[0-9]+\.[0-9]+\.[0-9]+`: Regular expression to match an IP address.

</details>

## Exercise 4 - Extract And Sort All `INFO` Messages

Find all instances of "INFO" in `app.log`, sort them, and display only the first 2 results. You will need to use pipes to combine multiple commands.

<details>
  <summary>Hint</summary>

  Use pipes to combine the `grep`, `sort`, and `head -n 2` commands.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  Here is the command to search for all instances of "INFO" in `app.log` sort them and display only the first 2 results.

  ```bash

  grep -i "INFO" app.log | sort | head -n 2

  ```

  Explanation:
  - `grep -i "INFO" app.log`: Search for all occurrences of "INFO" in `app.log`.
  - `sort`: Sort the results.
  - `head -n 2`: Display only the first 2 results.

</details>

## Exercise 5 - Come up With Your Own "grep" operation

Can you come up with your own grep operation that uses the file `app.log` or `setup.conf`?


## Excercise 6 - Come up With Your Own "grep" operation and Pipe it to Another Command

Can you come up with your own grep operation that uses the file `app.log` or `setup.conf` and pipe it to another command?


## Conclusion
You should now feel comfortable using grep to search for patterns in text files. You can now move on to the next section to learn about "xargs".